MTM-45318 Added images and guide for the new asset-selector. (#399)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/users-guide/cockpit-bundle/using-widgets.md

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-lock.png" name="Lock dashboard"/>

>**Info:** On touch devices like smartphones or tablets some functions may not be supported.

<a name="target-assets"></a>
### Selecting assets in widgets

> The following section describes how [to select one asset](#add-asset), how [to select groups or devices with children as an asset](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search) in the widgets configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section describes how [to select one top-level asset](#add-asset), how [to select child devices as asset](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search) in the widgets configuration.
```

<a name="add-asset"></a>
#### To add an asset to a new or existing widget

On the **Configuration** tab of the widget editor, select the check boxes of the desired asset under **Asset selection**. Click **Save** to add the asset to the widget.

> You can select a single device or a group of devices, which are marked with a folder icon. For details on selecting groups of devices see [To select groups or devices with children as an asset](#asset-groups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select a single device or a whole group of devices, indicated by a folder icon. For details on selecting child devices within groups, see [To select child devices within groups as asset](#asset-groups).
```

> You can select a single device or a whole group of devices, indicated by a folder icon. For details on selecting child devices within groups, see [To select child devices within groups as asset](#asset-groups).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can select a single device or a whole group of devices, indicated by a folder icon. For details on selecting child devices, see [To select child devices within groups as asset](#asset-groups).
```

If you want to edit an asset of a widget, open the widget editor and click **Clear**. This clears the previous asset collection. Select the new desired asset and click **Save**.  

For general instructions on how to add or modify widgets, see [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) or [Modifying widgets](#modifying-widgets).

<a name="asset-groups"></a>

> #### To select child devices within groups as asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### To select child devices as asset
```

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-lock.png" name="Lock dashboard"/>

>**Info:** On touch devices like smartphones or tablets some functions may not be supported.

<a name="target-assets"></a>
### Selecting assets in widgets

> The following section describes how [to select one or more assets](#add-asset), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following section describes how [to select one or more single assets](#add-asset), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search) in the widgets configuration.
```

<a name="add-asset"></a>
#### To add an asset to a new or existing widget

> On the **Configuration tab** of the dialog box for creating or editing a widget, select the desired assets under **Asset selection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Configuration tab** of the widget editor, select the check boxes of the desired assets under **Asset selection**.
```

> The following image shows the dialog box with an asset being selected.<br> To select another asset, click **Change**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify your selection, click **Change**.
```

> ![Selected asset](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selected.png)

Reviewer: We should show a different image here, not the change button.

> For details on how to add or modify a widget, see [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) or [Modifying widgets](#modifying-widgets).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For general instructions on how to add or modify widgets, see [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) or [Modifying widgets](#modifying-widgets).
```

<a name="asset-groups"></a>
### To select groups or devices with children as asset

> If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.

Reviewer: I would add the icons as images here behind the text
folder icon
chevron icon
You can check for example the machine learning documentation on the notation for inline images in markdown.

> If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assets assigned to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.
```

> If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.

Reviewer: chevron icon > We do not use this term in the documentation. We actually use "arrow".

![Select assets](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selection.png)

> If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, you can find the unassigned devices in the **Unassigned Devices** node, located on the root level of the selected group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, you can find the unassigned devices in the **Unassigned Devices** folder, located on the root level of the selected group.
```

> If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, you can find the unassigned devices in the **Unassigned Devices** node, located on the root level of the selected group.

Reviewer: In this case, what is referred to as "node" is represented as a "folder" in the UI, so we should use the UI terms here.

> >**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned devices** node itself. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.

Reviewer: Here you are using the term "column" like in "next column level". We should either use it above as well or avoid it.

> >**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned devices** node itself. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned devices** node itself. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.
```
```suggestion
>**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned devices** folder itself. However, all devices inside this folder can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.
```

![Unassigned devices](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-unassigned-devices.png)

<a name="asset-search"></a>
### To search and filter for assets

There are two methods which can be used to quickly find assets:

1. Full text search, and
2. column filtering.

<a name="general-search"></a>
#### Full text search

Through the full text search you can find assets in the whole hierarchy, but it requires exact matches, for example, the whole name of the asset.

For details on the search functionality, see [Getting Started > UI functionalities and features > Search and filter functionality](/users-guide/getting-started/#searching-and-filtering).

> On the **Configuration** tab in the dialog box you can use the full text search drop down field under **Asset selection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the **Configuration** tab in the widget editor, you can use the full text search field under **Asset selection**.
```

> On the **Configuration** tab in the dialog box you can use the full text search drop down field under **Asset selection**.

Reviewer: I would move this sentence to the top.

![Full text search](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-global-search.png)

After selecting the asset, you see all children of this asset. To return to the level above, click the "X" in the search field.

> > **Info:** The full text search is only available when there is no asset context, for example, in the "Home" dashboard.

Reviewer: when there is no asset context > what does this mean?

<a name="column-filter-asset"></a>
#### Column filtering

Column filtering is another way to find assets. However, it only filters assets on the current level under **Asset selection**.

> ![Column filtering](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-column-filter.png)

Reviewer: I would add a similar sentence here:
For details on the filter functionality, see [Getting Started > UI functionalities and features > Search and filter functionality](/users-guide/getting-started/#searching-and-filtering).

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-lock.png" name="Lock dashboard"/>

>**Info:** On touch devices like smartphones or tablets some functions may not be supported.

<a name="target-assets"></a>
### Selecting assets in widgets

The following section describes how [to select one or more assets](#add-asset), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search).

<a name="add-asset"></a>
#### To add an asset to a new or existing widget

> On the **Configuration tab** of the dialog box of a new widget or existing widget, select the desired asset under **Asset selection**.

Reviewer: of a new widget or existing widget >for creating or editing a widget
desired asset > desired assets ?

Reviewer 2: Done

> On the **Configuration tab** of the dialog box of a new widget or existing widget, select the desired asset under **Asset selection**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the **Configuration tab** of the dialog box for creating or editing a widget, select the desired assets under **Asset selection**.
```

> The following image shows the dialog box with an asset being selected. To select another asset, click **Change**.

Reviewer: I would add an line break between this two sentences.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following image shows the dialog box with an asset being selected.<br> To select another asset, click **Change**.
```

![Selected asset](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selected.png)

> You have now selected an asset for a widget.

Reviewer: I would remove this sentence. Sounds weird, as this result is obvious here, only one step in the procedure. What do you think?

Reviewer 2: I do think it rounds it off, but on the other hand should we not have too much unnecessary content. I will remove it.

Reviewer 2: Done

> You have now selected an asset for a widget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

For details on how to add or modify a widget, see [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) or [Modifying widgets](#modifying-widgets).

<a name="asset-groups"></a>
### To select groups or devices with children as asset

If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.

![Select assets](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selection.png)

> If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, unassigned devices can be found in the **Unassigned Devices** node, located on the root level of the selected group.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, you can find the unassigned devices in the **Unassigned Devices** node, located on the root level of the selected group.
```

> >**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned Devices** node itself. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned Devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.

Reviewer: Unassigned Devices > should actually be "Unassigned devices", not sure what the UI shows.

![Unassigned devices](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-unassigned-devices.png)

<a name="asset-search"></a>
### To search and filter for assets

There are two methods which can be used to quickly find assets:

1. General search, and
2. column filtering.

<a name="general-search"></a>
#### General search

Through the general search you can find assets in the whole hierarchy, but it requires exact matches, for example, the whole name of the asset.

> For details see [Getting Started > UI functionalities and features > Search and filter functionality](/users-guide/getting-started/#searching-and-filtering).

Reviewer: For details see > For details on the search functionality, see

On the **Configuration** tab in the dialog box you can use the general search dropdown field under **Asset selection**.

![General search](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-global-search.png)

After selecting the asset, you see all children of this asset. To return to the level above, click the "X" in the search field.

> ![General search clear](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-clear-search.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Full text search clear](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-clear-search.png)
```

> > **Info:** The global search is only available when there is no asset context, for example, in the "Home" dashboard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Info:** The full text search is only available when there is no asset context, for example, in the "Home" dashboard.
```

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-lock.png" name="Lock dashboard"/>

>**Info:** On touch devices like smartphones or tablets some functions may not be supported.

<a name="target-assets"></a>

> ### Select assets in widget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Select assets in widgets
```

> The following section describes how [to add an asset to an existing widget](#add-asset) as well as to [a new widget](#asset-new-widget), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following section describes how to select one or more assets 

  [to add an asset to an existing widget](#add-asset) as well as to [a new widget](#asset-new-widget), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search).
```

<a name="add-asset"></a>

> #### To add an asset to an existing widget

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### To add an asset to a widget
```

To select an asset for an existing widget follow the steps below:

1. Select the widget in the respective folder in the **Groups** menu in the Cockpit application.
2. Click the cogwheel icon at the top right of the widget and select **Edit** from the context menu.
3. In the resulting dialog box you can now select an asset via the **Asset selection** dropdown field on the left.

The following image shows the dialogue box with an asset being selected. To select another asset, click **Change**.

![Selected asset](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selected.png)

> You have now selected an asset for an existing widget.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have now selected an asset for a widget.
```

<a name="asset-new-widget"></a>
#### To add an asset to a new widget

> Another option of selection an asset is through adding a new widget. See [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) on how to add a new widget.

Reviewer 2: mit teil darüber zu einem zusammenfassen

<a name="asset-search"></a>
### To search and filter for assets

There are two methods which can be used to quickly find assets:

1. General search, and
2. column filtering.

<a name="general-search"></a>
#### General search

Through the general search you can find assets in the whole hierarchy, but requires exact matches, for example, the whole name of the asset.
There are two ways of searching for an asset via the global search:

1. Through the **Add widget** button, and
2. by selecting and editing widget.

Whether you choose to add a new widget or to edit an existing widget, the process opens a dialogue window for editing the widget. Here you can find the

![General search](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-global-search.png)

Select the desired asset to change the root view to that asset (see image below). To return to the global root view, click the "X" in the search field.

![General search clear](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-clear-search.png)

> **Info:** The global search is only available when there is no asset context, for example, in the "Home" dashboard.

<a name="column-filter-asset"></a>
#### Column filtering

> Column filtering is another way to find devices. However, it only filters assets on the current level in the asset selector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Column filtering is another way to find assets. However, it only filters assets on the current level under **Asset selection**.
```

<img src="/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-dashboard-lock.png" name="Lock dashboard"/>

>**Info:** On touch devices like smartphones or tablets some functions may not be supported.

<a name="target-assets"></a>
### To select an asset for a widget

There are two options for selecting an asset of a widget:

1. through editing an existing widget,
2. by adding a new widget.

> The following section describes how [to add an asset](#add-asset), how [to select groups or devices with children as assets](#asset-groups) and how [to search or filter for assets](#asset-search).

Reviewer: There is one link missing to asset-new-widget

<a name="add-asset"></a>

> #### To add an asset to an existing widget

Reviewer: Not sure if we really have to distinguish between new and existing?

> To select an asset of an existing widget follow the steps below:

Reviewer: of an existing widget > for an existing widget

> 1. Select the widget in the respective folder in the **Groups** menu in the Cockpit application.

Reviewer: Widgets are not shown in the Groups folder

> 2. Click the cogwheel icon at the top right corner of the widget and select **Edit** from the context menu.

Reviewer: at the top right corner >  at the top right

> 3. In the following window you can now select an asset via the drop-down menu "Asset selection" on the left.

Reviewer: following window > resulting dialog box
via the drop-down menu "Asset selection" on the left > via the **Asset slection** dropdown field on the left

> The following image you see the dialogue window with an asset already being selected. To select another asset, click "Change".

Reviewer: you see  > shows
the dialogue window > the dialog box
with an asset already being selected > with an asset being selected
click "Change" > click **Change**

![Selected asset](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selected.png)

You have now selected an asset for an existing widget.

<a name="asset-new-widget"></a>
#### To add an asset to a new widget

> Another option of selection an asset is through adding a new widget. See [To add a widget to a dashboard or a report](#adding-widgets) on how to add a new widget.

Reviewer: Another option of selection an asset is through adding a new widget.
> This does not really make sense. Selecting assets is just something I do when I create widgets. It is not something I want to do and therefore create a widget.

> In the **Configuration** tab of the **Add widget** window, select an asset via the drop-down menu "Asset selection" on the left.

Reviewer: drop-down menu "Asset selection" on the left. > **Asset selection** dropdown field on the left.

You have now selected an asset for a new widget.

<a name="asset-groups"></a>
### To select groups or devices with children as asset

> If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to previous level, simply click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.

Reviewer: to previous level > to the previous level
 simply click > click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the asset is a group or a device with children, you see a folder icon next to their name as well as a chevron icon pointing right. Click the desired group or device with children in the list to open a new column displaying all assigned assets to that group or device. To return to the previous level, click on the back chevron. Click the desired device to select it as an asset.
```

![Select assets](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-selection.png)

If you want to select an unassigned device as an asset, unassigned devices can be found in the **Unassigned Devices** node, located on the root level of the selected group.

> >**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned Devices**. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned Devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.

Reviewer: You cannot select the **Unassigned Devices**. What does that mean?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**Info:** You cannot select the **Unassigned Devices** node itself. However, all devices inside this node can be selected on the next column level. Click **Unassigned Devices** to open the column with all unassigned devices. Click the desired device to select it.
```

![Unassigned devices](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-unassigned-devices.png)

<a name="asset-search"></a>
### To search and filter for assets

There are two methods which can be used to quickly find assets:

1. General search, and
2. column filtering.

<a name="general-search"></a>
#### General search

> Through the general search you can find assets in the whole hierarchy, but requires exact matches, for example, the whole name of the asset.

Reviewer: but requires > but it requires
add the link to the documentation of the search functionality

Reviewer 2: for details on General search see (getting started>UI functionalities) --> Add link

> There are two ways of searching for an asset via the global search:

Reviewer: These are not ways of searching but use cases where I do the search. I would remove this sentence and the listing, it is already mention in the next sentence.

1. Through the **Add widget** button, and
2. by selecting and editing widget.

> Whether you choose to add a new widget or to edit an existing widget, the process opens a dialogue window for editing the widget. Here you can find the

Reviewer: you choose to add a new widget or to edit an existing widget, > you  add a new widget or edit an existing widget,

![General search](/images/users-guide/cockpit/cockpit-asset-global-search.png)

> Select the desired asset to change the root view to that asset (see image below). To return to the global root view, click the "X" in the search field.

Reviewer: Select the desired asset to change the root view to that asset > 
I don´t understand what that means. What is the root view?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After selecting the asset, you see all children of this asset. To return to the level above, click the "X" in the search field.
```
